Hello! This is the 25th edition of the weekly review and the penultimate one before the first ballot of the presidential elections
and because of this we could say that two weekly reviews from now the world will have changed.
So first off, you know the rules: you put likes as much as you can so the video goes up if you liked it.
We went over 20 million views on this youtube channel
and we hope to reach 300 000 subscribers before the first ballot of the presidential election.
It should be possible as we are already a little bit more than 280 000.
For this 25th edition, let's start with the credits.
I'll start with a subject that has to do with the somewhat drab atmosphere
that some people are trying to put around me, because they need to defend themselves.
Because they don't want me to become president at all, or even to see me reach the second ballot,
since a few days, they're launching an offensive.
It's normal in a democracy that we fight over who gets the votes, it's normal,
it's actually what the election is about; it's to convince people that a thing is good and another thing isn't.
Where it gets strange is when the campaign becomes totally made up.
So there is a list of people that decided to launch a campaign on the theme "Mélenchon, Chavez, Fidel Castro, Putin"
I think that they must encourage each other in it because everyone of them keeps bringing new things
and make things up. It's a bit ridiculous.
So they talk about Castro: he's dead; they talk to me about Hugo Chavez; he's dead.
So we're talking about people that are not there
And all of this to induce the idea that I crave to become a dictator
and this people persuade themselves and from one to the other they keep making things up, adding things.
I have here a newspaper that is particularly vile in its hostility
because after all, they call themselves leftists at the Obs.
They could at least respect me
they could argue with me by saying "Well, we disagree with him" but why do they do that?
"Mélenchon or the Kremlin Peace"
you see, those people that have strong bonds to the United States of America, we'll say that,
doing a title like that on me, "The Kremlin Peace".
Why do they believe in this? Of course it ends with...
Everything that I say is put to end up with:
Mélenchon said: "We don't want any war, be it little, medium or big, on this continent."
to add right after it: "A little bit like Chamberlain and Daladier at Munich!"
Munich! It's always Munich their thing,
that is to say the idea of a capitulation, that by the way, allows them to compare Putin to Hitler.
And it doesn't even bother them, to them everything is the same,
et below that there's a guy nammed Serge Raffy writing a paper on me.
So, it is written "Mélenchon or the quiet guerrillero" in red
because you're too stupid, if it's not written in red you don't understand
that it's to say that I'm a red and it's start like that
- I'll just read you the first sentence because it made me laugh-
"Call him "El Chon" and he shivers in satisfaction"
and he adds 'Compare him with the Che who died in Bolivia
driven by the crazy dream of an impossible Bolivarian revolution, and he won't argue with that."
So there are several things that this Serge Raffy ignores: first off, the Che's project wasn't the Bolivarian revolution,
this is Chavez, something like 40 years later.
No, it was a socialist revolution and if he knows a little bit about my past,
there are people that are interested in knowing what I thought about those things when it came up,
I have never been a supporter of the guerilla as described by the Che,
that the Che put in practice for reasons that I won't touch on now
because those are old arguments that are now outdaded and the rest is just the same.
I am nostalgic of dictatorship because I love that, I love tyrans,
and this is what this guy is telling in his papers.
But to read that you, maybe you're, you're a liberal intellectual, from a certain left,
intellectual, quiet, your thing isn't political strategy or anythingn
but anyway, you're from this political family, so you give 3,90 €, you buy a newspaper and they say to you:
"Are you Macron, Mélenchon or Hamon?", for exemple. Plus the photos on the cover are cool.
So you say to yourself "I'd like to know, I'll try to check that up"
so you have a quiz, and here again in this quiz...
If you put a little red triangle, you're agreeing with me,
and rest assured that any time that you choose the little red triangle
you'll fall on Cuba, or I don't what, Venezuela, Putin...
This morning, it was... They found their angle, here it is, and it rocks!
They found in my program that I think that France should join the ALBA,
The ALBA! So you're home and you're like what's that? What is that, what happened at the ALBA?
Naturally nobody knows what the ALBA is, or very few people know.
We can learn about that by ourselves but you count on journalists to do it for you, don't you?
Well, you're out of luck. So they say the ALBA is a Chavez invention, so we already know that it's not worth arguing about it
and then they say yes, but in the ALBA there is Venezuela, and also Russia and Iran as observers,
not very democratic. So, we should start from the beginning. So first, what is the ALBA?
It's organisation based on cooperation in the latino-america continent.
It's the only association based on cooperation, that is to say not aimed at profit making.
It isn't a single market thing like Mercosur, or a market coalition
like the Andean Community - the CAN -, it isn't the pacific treaty.
It isn't any of these things it is something that is aimed at cooperation in any area where we can cooperate.
So no trading relationships... I mean, it can be commercial relationships,
but if they're trading relationships, then they're cooperative relationships.
That's what is interesting to me and in Latin America it isn't the Lille or the Nice France that we talk about.
We're talking about France in Latin America, that is to say Guiana.
I think that you all saw that there's a problem in Guiana.
Don't you think it would be better if Guyana became a part of the Latin America sphere on a cooperative mode. Don't you agree with that?
It's worth it, isn't it? Guiana is a territory of Latin America
and I see people mocking me when I say that the longest border in France is with Brazil, not with Germany.
Why are they mocking me? Isn't Guiana France?
There's this dismissive, neocolionialist feeling among those who look down on Guiana
to the point where it doesn't come to their mind that the border at Guiana is interesting to us and get is involved directly,
because what is on the other side of this border? You just have to use your mind.
Who's on the other side? Brazil, that is to say one of the world's emerging power. This isn't nothing.
It is - how could I say that - an amazing partner for them, a little territory like Guiana.
I'm not done. All the Caribbean countries there. Look a the map.
In the Caribbean islands you have french territories: Martinique, Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin,
all of this counts and them, isn't it better for them to be in their surroundings?
Isn't it interesting for us, french people, to give to these territories the responsability to ensure that we're linked to the Americas?
Isn't it good for cooperation, trading, all of that?
So they should know better. Those who are always talking to us about globalisation, they're there, blabla...
They only want globalisation so that they can create single markets
and when we're actually speaking about the way we should organise cooperation with our surroundings...
Around our territories they're all gone. They're watching things with a spoon, making things up. So that's what the ALBA is.
What countries are in the ALBA? I brought a note so I won't forget anyone.
It's important to know who's in the ALBA. "There's Venezuela!" Well yes, it's true, there's Venezuela.
Venezuela is the country with the world's largest oil stock.
I personnaly want to put a stop to carbon energies, but you people, you the smart ones,
it doesn't matter to you to have a relationship with the country that has the world's largest oil stock?
No, they didn't even think about it? It doesn't interest them. They make their propaganda and that's it.
So, what countries are members of the ALBA? There is: Venezuela, Bolivia, Nicaragua, Cuba,
Dominica, Saint-Vincent, the Grenadines,
Ecuador, Saint-Lucia, Antigua and Barduda, that are also an island.
We're a Caribbean nation, so we're interested in working with people from the Caribs, in cooperation
and not just to say, "we're interested in you because we want to dump tons of goods on your head so that you can't produce them by yourself."
And among the observers... So they're saying to us "Oh, but there are Russians and Iran, that's not really democratic."
There are no russians. It's like that. It's odd, isn't it? Intelligent, cultured journalists and everything...
Why do they feel the need to make things up? To scare you because they fundamentally
believe that you're imbeciles whose minds they can fill with anything, to whom they can tell anything,
and that it scares you. So, what countries are observers? Haiti.
Haiti is important to us, you know the misery in which Haiti dwells.
It's not nothing for us to have a local cooperative relationship with Haiti,
because we can do a lot of things with Haiti and because we owe them a debt, my friends.
You do know that we destroyed everything in Haiti, you do know that there was a war between us,
and that it's from there that the world's first black Republic was born,
and that during decades we made Haiti pay for their slaves' buy-back.
So us french people we owe Haiti a debt and if tomorrow I become the President of the French Republic
I'll do anything in my power so that Haiti can breath back.
And what will Haitians ask us? What do you believe they'll ask us?
Machines so that they can produce energy, so that they can start to organize,
so that they can start to organise electricity to pump water or filter it to access potable water
and so if they get energy, stop cutting all the woods that are there
because as we cut all the woods, the ground goes down in the sea and so then there's no more arable land. Do you see how little is needed?
So it is important to us that we work with Haiti.
There is also Syria and Iran that are observers, yes.
Well, they must be observers like in a lot of other meetings in which there are french observers,
and we're not asking from the people that are coming in this to approve the regime of this one or this one,
because if you're asking me, I've never agreed with the Iranian regime
so I won't start now, I've never agreed with them.
Back in the days of the Ayatollah Khomeini, I didn't support his return to Iran
and there are also other countries; maybe you know Uruguay, it's the country of Pépé Mujica.
And then there's Paraguay. I don't agree at all with the government in Paraguay, why don't they talk about that?
It's a government that started on a coup, and they don't even talk about Paraguay
they're quoting Syria and Iran, but they don't talk about the others. You see that all of this intox, brainwashing.
So the ALBA is an organisation that is interesting to us, as french people,
and I think that it would be a good thing that we fit in this,
it would be a way to say "France is a Carribbean and a Latin American power"
All of this started... Nobody knew about the ALBA before that
because on France Info this morning they asked Clémentine Autain about it, and they said she is my spoke person, which she's not.
Not because I don't want her to be but because she didn't wanted to be,
2 or 3 months ago when we asked her about it because she had other priorities,
such as her campaign for the general election, but we're friends and everything is alright,
I jump on the occasion to say that, but it's an idea of this TV station to make people up with the title of spoke-person, so then
after of course, it goes bad when the spoke person is being asked a question and we say "She looks embarrassed".
I'll tell you why she's embarrassed: because she don't know what it's about.
And it's normal, you can't know everything about everything,
especially when the others say to her "So, you agree with Mélenchon
who wants to make an alliance with the ALBA in which there's Russia and Iran?"
so of course she's embarrassed as she doesn't know the subject, and I don't blame her for that.
How can you know everything about all the subjects? Do you believe that I now all the subjects in my program
and in the 40 booklets well then I'll tell you that no I don't, I read everything but
I'm not capable of answering every questions, especially when the one asking it he's doing it with the intent
to deceive you, to lead you to make a mistake, and that's what these two are doing.
If she asked me before, I would have told her: "beware,
those guys, they've already broadcasted three times on their channels the extract where I say that I want to give France back to the french
so with here, the fourth time... This is what became information in the public service
and after that they're surprised that I don't want to go there, but it's very simple I won't go
don't want to fall in their traps to be thrown in the face so-called questions that the french are asking themselves.
Stop kidding me, the french people are asking themselves if the ALBA is good or not?
Of course I'm okay to talk about it as it is in the program,
but not in such a fake way. It's a shame. That's what it is, it's a shame.
They must be really scared to use such shameful tactics, but fortunately enough they're not all this way.
There are honest people in this profession that are trying to do their work the best that they can
and then you have the stars that are payed really expensive amounts so you need them to be worth it.
They're not that to inform you and you know it pretty well, they're there to tell you what to think and that's not the same thing,
it's not the same job. Well, people, I'll talk a little bit about the campaign
because as you saw it experienced an acceleration on our side
and it will just grow larger in the following week.
There, since the last weekly review
we got a good 20h on France 2, the same day we came out with... I mean, it's the Insoumis' Discord
that did a marvellous thing, the game Fiscal Kombat that was successful very quickly,
there has been hundreds of thousands of different users and I think that the people are having fun, there is even some that said that it's addictive.
It's really well done and it's quite fun to handle and there are a lot of political things
and the global idea is: we shake people and it makes euros to achieve our project.
So that was friday. Then saturday we were on the show "On N'est Pas Couchés"
and it did quite well in ratings and anyway I was pretty interested in it when I recorded it
and the next day there was Marseille. The great Marseille meeting.
And after that, if we have to stop this, the monday we started our radio "Les Jours Heureux".
So as you see there were a lot of things and the same monday when we started "Les Jours Heureux",
we started the 7 trailers that go around the country and the popular neighbourhoods so as you see it is a rush of work
and also all sort of friends got together on the platform to do the Melenphone.
It is a technic consisting calling people to motivate them for the upcoming election
and it is very efficient as we already got in contact with more than 20 000 persons in the country.
I think that it will rise in intensity because, and this is also true here, you'll be interested in this,
you can go on the platform and you can give some of your time from time to time
to, by yourself, call people, so I believe that they give you phone numbers
because we're aiming at certain places in the country? What places?
Those where the abstention rates are the higher, because we think that it's there
that we should convince people to come and vote for us, this is what our campaign is going for.
To us, our goal isn't to take a handful of votes here and there, it isn't what it's about to us.
It's about a substantive popular movement  that carries a candidate and a program
and then accomplishes the program, so you see that the method must be well-done at all times.
I personally believe that what we see... We understand why they all got so scared, the TV anchors from the system
that are defending the establishment, it's because they see really well that they're about to take a massive wave,
so in the following days they'll make things up, to try and break this movement.
Well, so far it's started really poorly because it's really grotesque.
Yesterday I was at Lille where we did a meeting...
I don't know when was the last time they ever was such a powerful popular gathering
so it was gigantic and people there were extremely enthuastic and they were really really reacting to
a number of specific political matters. You could hear that.
There was a moment where I got scared because I heard an enormous sound, I didn't know what it was.
It turned out it was people stomping out. So it made a wave
and it was really, really impressive. It was a huge success
But it has a political meaning, and you've got to understand that,
it isn't just an event in a presidential campaign. It already wouldn't be bad!
There are people that would like to make campaign moments like this one, but they can't!
But well, be it at Marseille or Lille, these are such gigantic crowds
that it means that there's something that has to do, not only with the campaign,
but with the political and intellectual state of mind of the country;
with his reject of the ancient regime of the Vth republic and his puppets, but well they don't wan't to understand that
I personnaly don't care the voters will make a decision
and you'll see that the voters will have understood that it is necessary to move on
and that we should do that in the quietest way possible, but also in the deepest way possible.
I'll go to Toulouse this sunday. And well for all this region, be it at Toulouse
or at the meeting that I'll do next week, you know, with the hologram
that well be present in six different halls.
Well each and every time we set up a centralised system to get tickets for the cars.
It means that everyone can go because if you do it early and there's a problem with money
generally the friends get together so that they can go and come.
I'll see you there and I'll also see you on my platform.
Do you know that we're close to getting the 400 000 supports to my campaign
and like the people who signed are often the more active ones...
Active, it means that someone does something by himself or in a group and by the way it's incredible.
The other day, I have a friend, so he did a support group, and they're two or three support groups that start getting along with each other.
And he says to me: "I go out in the street, and there was two persons that were giving out flyers."
So he stops there: "But, what are you doing, from which group are you?" In a nice way
and the others they say like that: "No, groups bore us, we're just two pals and we order the material directly from the platform."
Here you have two persons saying that they're bored by groups
but anyway, when you're two it's already a group,
so they decide all alone what they'll do for their campagin and as they wanted to do it
they choose the material that suits them the best, what they'll do, from time to time they'll put up a poster here and there, well,
it's quite good, and I think that it has been a characteristic of this campaign that the people get involved,
but everyone in their own way with the way they want to get involved,
it's not something that comes from the outside. But anyway, there are moments
where we need to act all together because if we don't then we waste energy.
I hope that you'll be many in La plaine des Filtres, Toulouse because that's our next meeting
and then the six halls where we'll do the meeting of the last part of the campaign.
A subject that isn't really present on the political stage and in the information world is water.
I get back to it quite often because I think that the cycle of water is one of the great stakes for human societies since the beginning.
So we can still believe that because we have running water then it's not a problem anymore.
But it's still a problem because we need to do with water in tubes and what water?
So, even before we talk about water valve and individual access to water,
we need to ask ourselves about water itself, because the humonguous human presence on the surface of the earth
produces all sort of pollution, we already talked about pesticides and all that,
and there is also pollutions that are linked to the human presence itself,
that is to say to the fact that we're human beings, and human beings
well they spread everywhere fecal matter and urine and everything, and all that goes to the ground
because there is a lot of places where it's not picked up by anybody, and from here, it gets into water.
And then the World Health Organization finds out that there are 2 billion people
that drink water infested by fecal matter.
2 billion, it's roughly the equivalent of the total population of the planet
in the 50's of the previous century, so that you can see how much it represent.
It's a huge number of people and every year 500 000 persons die
because of diarrhea, epidemics that spread because of the fact that we drink water that is polluted by fecal matter.
So it's a gigantic problem that would cost nothing to solve -  or almost nothing -
if the Monetary Fund, the World Bank, all the people that have money
got interested in anything else than trading of goods and the debts of countries.
Something needs to be done here and I think that we, once we get to power, we'll have a water policy
but a water policy from its collection, its treatment, its delivery,
its re-treatment once it's been used and about the way to put all this at the service of the human ensemble
of agriculture, of human beings, of animals, well, of all of those that have to do with the cycle of water;
The cycle of water, it's the fundamental cycle of life itself. You're composed of 85% of water and it's just this was.
Water is the fundamental matter of the living, so to solve a problem of this nature investments are needed
and those are good investments because they guarantee the good health of the people
in the same time as a water circulation that makes their life infinitely less painful
and that's also a lot of jobs, so we find in this business
the needs, the necessities of cooperation, because we need to give to countries that needs
technics that allows them to collect, clean and redistribute water and we now how to do all of this, us french,
be it by private companies or by the state.
It isn't up to me to go and quote the private companies that I have been in conflict with in France
because their role isn't as bright as some might tell you, but here are some ideas for the future
and it pleases me to see that as we mentionned and as we explained in our programs
some Development NGOs - at least 5 of them -
said that our program was the program best fit to these problems and questions that are being raised by the co-development
term that was very popular ten years ago and a lot less now
because those who wrapped themselves in this word didn't do anything
or things that are deplorable since then. But I'll come back to it, I believe in co-development
everytime a country goes better, the others around goes better, that's what I believe in.
I don't believe that we can make profit off of the misery of others for very long.
You know, the big countries always become aware of this at one point.
The other day I was seeing a declaration by mister Martin Schulz
who is the german social democrat candidate to the function of chancellor for the next election that will take place in september
and well Martin Schulz says something to his fellow countrymen that is in my book "Le Hareng de Bismarck"
that at the time made me the target of acerbic reviews, of germanophobia,
well there, it's Martin Schulz that says it. He's the ex-president of the European Parliament.
He says "We can't continue to think that we will be fine by impoverishing all the others"
because he's aware of the fact that they themselves are not doing that well at all
and that the impoverishment of the others always end up being their own impoverishment
as the others have less interest and less possibilities to trade with them.
I think that our world is at the eve of a massive realization and I believe that - how to say that -
the interest that my campaign has gained is one of the form of this realization.
As I said yesterday, what is important in all of this isn't me, it's those who trust me.
Why do they trust me is what the people should ask themselves.
It isn't some mass psychology thing, it's about a realization
the people are aware that it can't continue the way it is. Here it is. See you next week.